Aim  
The aim of this assignment is to assess your understanding of the principles of robotic manipulators 
and your ability to model manipulators using Python.  
Task  
Your task is to design a manipulator that able to pick up three objects from the floor and place them 
on three shelves on various heights and location above the floor.  
The manipulator is to be designed and tested PURELY IN SIMULATION. This is a standard approach in 
engineering: validating a design before committing to a time-consuming and expensive build. The 
manipulator is to be modelled as a “stick figure.”  
At this stage, you are testing the kinematics of the design – the arrangement of links and joints – to 
see if they can meet the specification. You can model the manipulator as being mounted to a fixed 
surface. It is not necessary to model the end effector and the puck – you just need to show the 
location of the end effector is correct. 
Select the Denevit-Hartenburg parameters of your robot. The robot design must use at least 4-joints 
and one of them is prismatic joints, these will be the “Kinematic Parameters” input to the Python. 
Make sure you choose a sensible links length, coordinate system orientation and origin. 
Run a simulation using plot or any other methods to prove that the robot can reach the required 
positions (floor level and the three shelves). As a bare minimum, this could be implemented as four 
buttons on the front panel and, as each one is clicked, the robot pose is displayed reaching the 
required position. More sophisticated representations will gain higher marks (e.g. animated 
trajectories or visualizing the links and joints to move in 3D space). 
Rubric 
1-4 (Distinction):  
• The D-H parameters describe an appropriate robot. 
• The simulation demonstrates the whole animation sequence required to carry out the block
stacking task OR to visualize the links and joints to move in 3D space. 
• The video is very clear with appropriate comments.  
• Your program demonstrates more advanced features such as inverse kinematics and/or 
adding extra links. 
• Your program demonstrates your independent study by implementing something relevant 
not taught in class.